the UN Secretary General Antonio gues
has just said that an Israeli offensive
on Rafa would be an unbearable
escalation he was responding to Benjamin
netanyahu's comments that Israel will
carry out an operation in Rafa
regardless of whether a ceasefire deal
is reached with Hamas the Israeli Prime
Minister was speaking at a meeting with
the families of hostages where he
reiterated that Israel would eliminate
Hamas and Achieve total Victory take a
listen we will inter refer because we
have no other Jo we will destroy the
Hamas battalions there we will complete
all the objectives of the war including
the repatriation of all our
abductees well the Israeli Prime
Minister there saying Israel would enter
Rafa regardless of a deal and despite
its main Ally the US repeatedly saying
it doesn't support an allout offensive
there well Rafa is a city in southern
Gaza where more than a million
Palestinians are Sheltering after being
ordered to evacuate there on the grounds
that it was a safe Zone this is what
it's like in Rafa now many residential
buildings reduced to Rubble large camps
for displaced Palestinians like that one
have sprung up around Rafer and
thousands of children live there you can
see plumes of smoke from an Israeli air
strike close by well the UN Secretary
General Antonio gues urged Israel
against invading Rafa recent weeks have
seen air strikes on the Rafa
area a military assault on Rafa would be
an unbearable escalation
killing thousands more civilians and
forcing hundreds of thousands to
flee while a retired Israeli Army kernel
told us why she believes Israel's
assault on Gaza will go ahead regardless
of a ceasefire deal the only place that
Kamas still has full military capability
like what they did on October 7th is
under Rafa it's not in Rafa it's under
Rafa in that Subterranean Arena so I do
think it would be postponed I don't
think it would ever be
cancel so what does Miss netanyahu's
latest pledge mean for the ceasefire
deal currently on the table well Israel
says it will wait until Wednesday for a
response from Hamas a reminder the deal
put forward includes a 40-day truce in
return for the release of some hostages
it would also allow for displaced
families to return to Northern Gaza it's
also reported to involve new wording on
restoring calm to Gaza designed to
satisfy hamas's demand for a permanent
SE fire well Naf Alani is the former
Qatari director of Defense intelligence
operations remember Qatar is a crucial
player in the talks here's his
assessment on the likelihood of the deal
going through Hamas and other factions
in Gaza have said that they don't may
not have a clear number of all the
hostages where they're located there is
the possibility in fact we know that
there have been uh hostages that have
been killed uh through either bombings
or or internally in in Gaza depending on
on the story it's quite unclear uh so
getting back all the hostages is the
unclear bit about this now moving
forward this is structured differently
now will the Israelis stick to the plan
and not attack Rafa before that that is
the big question because if that
continues to happen it's very um
unrealistic to expect that Hamas would
agree to AAS fire well the top us
diplomats Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has just arrived in Tel Aviv
these are the latest pictures of that
arrival he'll be discussing the
ceasefire negotiations he arrived there
from Jordan and here's what he had to
say before boarding that flight our
Focus right now is on getting a
ceasefire and hostages home that is the
most urgent thing and it's also um I
think what is achievable because the
Israelis have put a strong proposal on
the table they've demonstrated that
they're willing to compromise and now
it's on
Hamas Let's cross live now and speak to
our security correspondent Frank Gardner
who is in Jerusalem and Frank how hard
is Mr blinken's job going to be now
given the rhetoric from Mr Netanyahu
today about the inevitability of a Rafa
offensive well he hasn't put a time
scale on that offensive I'm sure that um
the US state department won't find that
particularly helpful um they've also
reiterated their View that they have not
yet seen what they say is a credible
Israeli plan that would address their
humanitarian concerns about the plight
of the Palestinians in Rafa the US does
not want to see a US operation in Rafa
um yet the mood music that's coming out
of prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
today is very robust all about total
victory of pursuing the last remaining
Hamas battalions to some extent he's
throwing a boat to the hardliners in his
own cabinet um people who said that if
there is a ceasefire deal that um lets
Hamas off uh without a ruar offensive
they will walk so you know Benjamin
netanyahu's got a lot of juggling to do
he's trying to please all people at the
same time the Americans the negotiators
and the right- Wingers in his own um
party as well as the families of the
hostage uh the hostages who are not
impressed so far by the failure of the
Israeli government to get those hostages
out the last time we saw a mass release
of hostages was in November how was it
done was it done by military pressure no
it was done by a mediated deal by the
cutteries and the hostage families
believe that that's the only or at least
the best way to get their loved ones out
that doesn't seem to be the view ofe of
prime minister Netanyahu who seems
determined to press on with this
operation it's risky stuffff because you
know if you're going to be fighting to
get the hostages out there's a high
chance that those who are Left Alive
could be caught up in the crossfire
Frank thank you we've been talking over
the past few days about those protests
springing up in campuses across the
United States well Pro Palestinian
students are demanding their
universities divest from Israel over its
war in Gaza today we've received these
dramatic pictures from The Chapel Hill
Campus of the UN University of North
Carolina many protesters were detained
after the university sent them a demand
to vacate their encampment well this is
the campus at Colombia's University the
unrest there shows no signs of abating
it's here that the protest camps and
demonstrations first began before
spreading elsewhere well Susan Bowski is
the professor of writing at Colombia
University School of Arts she's also a
Jewish faculty member I asked her
whether she ever felt the pro tests were
unsafe or
anti-semitic So I myself who have been
on campus for many of the last days um
have not personally experienced anything
anti-semitic um I do not feel in any way
unsafe on campus and I know that a large
number of other Jewish faculty members
feel that way I've also heard reports of
anti-Semitic incidents and I know that
some Jewish faculty members don't feel
safe on campus but I myself most
certainly do I have seen many words
being thrown around that are strongly
against Israelis Israeli policies and
Israel's um you know Slaughter of
civilians in Gaza over these last months
and certainly there's a great deal of
anti-israeli government speech happening
on campus I have not felt speech that
individually targeted me as a member or
specifically Jews as Jews
well that was a professor from Colombia
Let's cross live now and speak to the
BBC's nomia ikbal who is at Columbia
University New York and Tom bitman who's
at the University of Texas in Austin uh
nomia to you first of all if I may uh
we've been reading that there have been
threats of exclusion expulsion in fact
of students who are involved in the
encampment what more do we know about
these
threats that's right the protest
escalated as we saw last night when some
Pro Palestinian demonstrators uh took
over Hamilton Hall and we saw some
scenes of uh people smashing through
windows and and what have you and so
that sparked the university to release a
new statement I'm just going to quote
you exactly what they said they said we
regret that protesters have chosen to
escalate their situ the situation
through their actions our top priority
is restoring safety and order on our
campus and so those people that were
involved in that we don't know exactly
who they were the university is saying
they face expulsion on top of that
you've got students who are being
suspended now uh yesterday the
university issued this 2 p.m. local
deadline for them to clear out the
encampment that didn't happen in terms
of uh the students doing that they stood
St strong they said they wouldn't they
wouldn't move uh what I can tell you
also is that one of the lead negotiators
that was talking to the university sort
of like a conduit between uh students uh
the protesters and University leadership
has been suspended I spoke to him just
uh moment ago and he said he doesn't
know on what basis he was suspended
because he had an agreement with the
university as a negotiator that he could
go back and forth he said he never
entered the encampment after 2 p.m. he's
a Palestinian uh student uh who has come
from Syria he said that he just doesn't
know now what where where his future is
uh if this hearing does go ahead he's
due to have a hearing at some point
along with many other students he could
permanently be kicked out of the us but
he did also say to me that he doesn't
think the protests are over the ends
just by the means and that's to quote
him Mahmud KH he said to me it doesn't
compare to what people in Gaza are going
through right now so despite what the
the University is doing and it's
becoming very robust and taking action
against students for many of them uh
this hasn't that this hasn't quelled
what they're doing it hasn't uh put
their protest to an end we're still
seeing outside the the gates here uh at
Columbia University there are still some
protests going on outside but security
has tightened up here okay n yet thanks
uh let's cross live now to the
University of Texas at Austin and speak
to Tom bitman and Tom we heard their
Nomo talking about uh those those
threats of arrests of uh uh of uh
disciplinary action not putting students
off at Colombia what's the feeling in
the University of Texas and
Austin well so far here today all very
calm all very quiet we've seen in the
last 20 minutes or so a group of uh well
we're about two dozen or so protesters
but I think even more Gathering now
um as you can see there but it was
yesterday that um the EXP the tensions
really exploded here um when once again
for the second time in a week uh the
situation was that the state police the
troopers were called in armed with
batons with uh mace um pepper spray uh
and they were um they came here after
the University Administration called in
those forces they say that the
protesters who at that point hadn't
encampment here had refused to heed uh
the university rules that the encampment
should be removed and so there was some
pretty violent scenes as some of the
protesters were dragged out um by the uh
Texas Troopers and uh I was just
chatting to a couple of protested hereo
said uh that uh pepper spray was used
against them a bit further up as a van a
police van was moving taking some of
those arrested away one of the protested
telling me that he was maed himself and
two others uh he said quite badly hurt
when that pepper spray was used this had
all really escalated significantly last
week because here in tin it's one of the
places where the protests really gain
momentum in solidarity with what was
happening in Colombia when the police
earlier this month first went into
Colombia to remove the encampments uh
and as far as the the protesters were
concerned in an extremely heavy-handed
way we then saw the protest spread uh
significantly and build momentum in many
other parts of the US one of those was
here and it was really the encampments
that the University Administration was
saying um was unacceptable uh the
university for its part saying that it
had given repeated warnings to the
protesters to move it says they hadn't
and accuses them of escalating the
situation it talked about for example
baseball siiz rocks being strategically
placed on the lawn here I was just
chatting to one of the protesters he
said that um there was you know there
are stones on the lawn here and people
have been using them as they do to weigh
down their papers in the wind so they're
saying that was complete nonsense from
the University Administration but
clearly more potential here for things
to escalate again we saw some more uh
police just watching on over the
protests and more protesters likely to
gather now Tom bitman in Austin and
nomia ikbal Columbia University thank
you both for joining us today well let's
just take you briefly now to show you
these live pictures coming into us from
North Carolina the campus at uh at the
University of North Carolina Chapel Hill
you can see a group of protesters
gathered around a Palestinian flag being
flown on a m we know that police on this
campus have detained multiple protesters
already during demonstrations today in
fact the university has said that uh
roughly 30 people were detained earlier
on this morning local time when they
clash with campus police they were
refusing to leave the area so there we
have a bit of more of a flavor of these
Pro protests happening in another
University campus that is in uh the
University campus of North Carolina in
Chapel Hill